Add CI/CD narrative (#1697)
astronomer/docs: astro/ci-cd.md

---

> sidebar_label: 'CI/CD Templates'

Reviewer: Seems redundant to me

> title: 'Automate code deploys with CI/CD'

Reviewer 2: "Use CI/CD templates to automate code deploys on Astro"

Something like that? Shorter?

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> Use the Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying code to Astro with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI. To decide which template is right for you, see [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate code deployment to Astro with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI. To decide which template is right for you, see [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).
```

## Prerequisites

- A deploy strategy for your CI/CD pipeline. See [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).
- A [Deployment API key ID and secret](api-keys.md).
- A CI/CD management tool, such as [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions).
- An [Astro project](create-project.md) that is hosted in a place that your CI/CD tool can access.

## Template types

> Templates allow you to easily configure automated workflows using popular CI/CD tools. Each template can be implemented as-is to produce a simple CI/CD pipeline. Astronomer recommends reconfiguring the templates to work with your own directory structures, tools, and best practices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Templates allow you to configure automated workflows using popular CI/CD tools. Each template can be implemented without changes to produce a CI/CD pipeline. However, Astronomer recommends reconfiguring the templates to work with your own directory structures, tools, and processes.
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/211808930-ed8f26ab-d4e8-429d-a7f4-707171ff4a0d.png)

> There are two workflow types, image-only workflows and DAG-based workflows, which are described in detail below. The following templates are available for each workflow type: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two workflow types, image-only workflows and DAG-based workflows. The following templates are available for each workflow type: 
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/211809076-7fc429ee-9c2b-4dde-9ea8-b7289766832a.png)

- Single branch: Deploys a single branch from your version control tool to Astro. This is the default template for all CI/CD tools. 
- Multiple branch: Deploys multiple branches to separate Deployments on Astro.
- Custom image: Deploys an Astro project with a customized Runtime image and additional build arguments.

### Image-only workflows  

> The image-only workflow builds a Docker image and pushes it to Astro whenever you update any file in your Astro project. This type of template is simple to set up and works well for development workflows that include complex Docker customization or logic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The image-only workflow builds a Docker image and pushes it to Astro whenever you update any file in your Astro project. This type of template works well for development workflows that include complex Docker customization or logic.
```
See previous comment about the use of _simple_.

CI/CD templates that use image-only workflows do the following:

- Access Deployment API key credentials. These credentials must be set as OS-level environment variables named `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET`.
- Install the latest version of the Astro CLI.
- Run `astro deploy`. This creates a Docker image for your Astro project, authenticates to Astro using your Deployment API key, and pushes the image to your Deployment.

This is equivalent to running the following shell script:

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
$ export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
$ export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"
# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
$ curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
# Build your Astro project into a Docker image and push the image to your Deployment
$ astro deploy
```

### DAG-based workflows

> The DAG-based workflow uses the `--dags` flag in the Astro CLI to enable a faster way to push DAG changes to Astro. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy the rest of your Astro project as a Docker image when other files or directories are modified. For more information about the benefits of this workflow, see [Deploy DAGs only](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The DAG-based workflow uses the `--dags` flag in the Astro CLI to push DAG changes to Astro. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy the rest of your Astro project as a Docker image when other files or directories are modified. For more information about the benefits of this workflow, see [Deploy DAGs only](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only).
```

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> Use the Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate code deployment to Astro with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI. To decide which template is right for you, see [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting up CI/CD is critical for mature data teams on Astro. Use the CI/CD templates in this guide to automate deploying code to Astro with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI.

To learn more about the benefits of CI/CD and decide which template is right for you, see [Set up CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).
```

### Image-only workflows  

The image-only workflow builds a Docker image and pushes it to Astro whenever you update any file in your Astro project. This type of template works well for development workflows that include complex Docker customization or logic.

CI/CD templates that use image-only workflows do the following:

- Access Deployment API key credentials. These credentials must be set as OS-level environment variables named `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` and `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET`.
- Install the latest version of the Astro CLI.
- Run `astro deploy`. This creates a Docker image for your Astro project, authenticates to Astro using your Deployment API key, and pushes the image to your Deployment.

This is equivalent to running the following shell script:

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
$ export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
$ export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"
# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
$ curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
# Build your Astro project into a Docker image and push the image to your Deployment
$ astro deploy
```

### DAG-based workflows

> The DAG-based workflow uses the `--dags` flag in the Astro CLI to push DAG changes to Astro. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy the rest of your Astro project as a Docker image when other files or directories are modified. For more information about the benefits of this workflow, see [Deploy DAGs only](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DAG-based workflow uses the `astro deploy --dags` command in the Astro CLI to quickly push DAG changes to Astro. These CI/CD pipelines only deploy your DAGs when only files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy the rest of your Astro project as a Docker image when other files or directories are modified. This makes deploys to Astro faster.

For more information about the benefits of the DAG-only deploy feature, see [Deploy DAGs only](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only).
```

This is equivalent to the following shell script: 

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"
export DAG_FOLDER="<path to dag folder ie. dags/>"
# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
# Determine if only DAG files have changes
files=$(git diff --name-only HEAD^..HEAD)
dags_only=1
for file in $files; do
  if [[ $file != "$DAG_FOLDER"* ]]; then
    echo "$file is not a dag, triggering a full image build"
    dags_only=0
    break
  fi
done
# If only DAGs changed deploy only the DAGs in your 'dags' folder to your Deployment
if [ $dags_only == 1 ]
then
    astro deploy --dags
fi
# If any other files changed build your Astro project into a Docker image, push the image to your Deployment, and then push and DAG changes
if [ $dags_only == 0 ]
then
    astro deploy
fi
```

## Deploy with GitHub Actions

> The following templates use the Astronomer-maintained [Deploy Action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action) to deploy code to Astronomer. See the [Deploy Action README](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action#readme) to learn more about using and customizing this action.

Reviewer 2: Should we just link to the marketplace, which hosts the README?

> The following templates use Astronomer's [Deploy Action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action) to deploy code to Astronomer. The Deploy Action is the easiest way to create CI/CD pipelines for Astro. See the [Deploy Action README](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action#readme) to learn more about using and customizing this action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following templates use [Deploy Action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action) to deploy code to Astronomer.  See the [Deploy Action README](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action#readme) to learn more about using and customizing this action.
```
